Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn about variables in C
A variable is a real necessity in a programming language
because the data will be stored in computer memory locations
and these memory locations will have addresses which are
hexa decimal values
And we need to access the memory very often to
store and retrieve this data
For example here character h is stored in the Memory Address 22fe53
character i is stored in the memory address 22fe54
and character j is stored in the memory address 22fe55
And suppose we want to change the values into
a, b and c respectively and we would want to
use these addresses to do that
But it is very difficult to remember all these memory
addresses while programming. so we need a solution to this
problem
So what we can do is we can map a
meaningful variable name to the memory address so that we
can access the memory address using the variable name instead
of some hexa decimal memory address
Here the memory address 22fe53 is mapped with the variable name letter1
similarly 22fe54 mapped with the letter2
22fe55 with letter3
Now we can access the memory address 22fe53 using the
variable named Letter1 and the other addresses with letter2
and letter3 respectively
Now we can easily manage the data at different locations
Now let us discuss about valid variable names in C. so
there are some rules on how to give a name
to a variable
first rule is that variable name should start with any
letter in the alphabet set
It can be either capital letter or small letter
or it should start with an underscore
So these are some valid declarations and see some invalid
declarations also
this is invalid because we cannot start a variable
name with a digit now
The second rule is that in the variable name no
special characters are allowed
Other than an underscore. it can be at any
position but no other special characters are allowed.
See some valid and invalid variable names here and one more important
point about variable names is that they are case sensitive
so age is not equal to Age
and variable name can be constructed as a
combination of digits and letters
Some examples are age1, age2 etc
And another important thing is that variable name should not
be a C keyword
For example int main return char et cetera
We cannot use these words as a variables name
These are reserved words
They have a special meaning
So we should not declare keyword as a variable name
So that's all and thank you for watching this video